{
 "cells": [
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 1,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": false
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "from lxml import etree\n",
    "import json\n",
    "import xmltodict"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 2,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": true
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "AKN = {\"akn\": \"http://docs.oasis-open.org/legaldocml/ns/akn/3.0/CSD13\"}\n",
    "xml = \"../data/AK-dail-2015-11-12-v2.xml\"\n",
    "baseURI = \"http://oireachtas.ie\""
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 3,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": false,
    "scrolled": true
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "root = etree.parse(xml)\n",
    "house_name = root.xpath(\".//akn:preface/akn:block[@name='proponent_ga']/akn:docProponent/text()\", \n",
    "                        namespaces=AKN)\n",
    "house_uri = root.find(\".//{*}FRBRWork/{*}FRBRauthor\").attrib['href']\n",
    "date = root.find(\".//{*}FRBRWork/{*}FRBRdate\").attrib['date']\n",
    "dbr_uri = root.xpath(\".//akn:FRBRWork/akn:FRBRuri/@value\", \n",
    "                                  namespaces=AKN)[0]"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "markdown",
   "metadata": {},
   "source": [
    "### Debate Headings\n"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 29,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": false
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "headings = {\"debateList\": {\n",
    "            \"head\": { \"chamber\": {\"showAs\": house_name[0],\n",
    "                                 \"uri\": house_uri},\n",
    "                     \"dateRange\": {\"start\": date, \n",
    "                                   \"end\": date},\n",
    "                     \"query\": None,\n",
    "                     \"by\": {\"showAs\": None,\n",
    "                            \"uri\": None},\n",
    "                     \"as\": {\"showAs\": None,\n",
    "                            \"uri\": None},\n",
    "                     \"limit\": 1,\n",
    "                     \"skipped\": 0,\n",
    "                     \"resource\": \"debateRecord\",\n",
    "                     \"sort\": {\"on\": \"date\",\n",
    "                              \"order\": \"desc\"},\n",
    "                     \"counts\": {\"debateRecordCount\": 1,\n",
    "                               \"debateSectionCount\": len(root.xpath(\".//akn:debateSection[./akn:heading]\",\n",
    "                                                                   namespaces=AKN))}\n",
    "                    },\n",
    "            \"results\": []\n",
    "           }\n",
    "        }\n",
    "\n",
    "# First for loop placeholder for when it comes to parsing the xml files\n",
    "for dbr in range(1):\n",
    "    dbsects = root.xpath(\".//akn:debateSection[./akn:heading]\", namespaces=AKN)\n",
    "    record = {\"debateRecord\": {\"chamber\": {\"showAs\": house_name[0],\n",
    "                                \"uri\": house_uri},\n",
    "                               \"uri\": dbr_uri, \n",
    "                               \"date\": date,\n",
    "                               \"debateSectionCount\": len(dbsects), \n",
    "                               \"debateSections\": [] \n",
    "                               }}\n",
    "    for dbs in dbsects:\n",
    "        speech_count = len(dbs.xpath(\"./akn:speech\", namespaces=AKN))\n",
    "        do_children_exist = len(dbs.xpath(\"./akn:summary|./akn:speech|./akn:p\", namespaces=AKN))>0\n",
    "        parent_dbs = dbs.xpath(\"./parent::akn:debateSection\", namespaces=AKN)\n",
    "        if len(parent_dbs) > 0:\n",
    "            parent_uri = dbr_uri + \"/\" + parent_dbs[0].attrib['eId']\n",
    "            parent_heading = parent_dbs[0].find(\"./{*}heading\").text\n",
    "            parent = {\"uri\": parent_uri, \n",
    "                      \"showAs\": parent_heading}\n",
    "        else:\n",
    "            parent = None\n",
    "        dbs_uri = dbr_uri + \"/\" + dbs.attrib['eId']\n",
    "        heading = dbs.find(\"./{*}heading\").text\n",
    "        data = {\"uri\": dbs_uri, \n",
    "                \"showAs\": heading, \n",
    "                \"context\": None, \n",
    "                \"speechCount\": speech_count, \n",
    "                \"parentDebateSection\": parent,\n",
    "               \"containsDebate\": do_children_exist}\n",
    "        record['debateRecord']['debateSections'].append({\"debateSection\":data})\n",
    "    headings['debateList']['results'].append(record)  "
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 30,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": false
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "with open(\"../data/debate-list.json\", \"w\") as f:\n",
    "    json.dump(headings, f, sort_keys=True, indent=2)\n",
    "\n",
    "with open(\"../data/debate-list.xml\", \"wb\") as f:\n",
    "    f.write(xmltodict.unparse(headings, pretty=True).encode(\"utf-8\"))"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "markdown",
   "metadata": {},
   "source": [
    "### Parliamentary Questions\n",
    "\n",
    "TODO: insert dot and space after question number in AKN"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 14,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": false
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "questions = {\"questions\": \n",
    "             {\"head\": { \"chamber\": {\"showAs\": house_name[0],\n",
    "                                 \"uri\": house_uri},\n",
    "                     \"dateRange\": {\"start\": date, \"end\": date },\n",
    "                     \"query\": None,\n",
    "                     \"by\": {\"showAs\": None,\n",
    "                            \"uri\": None},\n",
    "                     \"to\": {\"showAs\": None,\n",
    "                            \"uri\": None},\n",
    "                    \"limit\": 1,\n",
    "                     \"skipped\": 0,\n",
    "                    \"sort\": \"desc\",\n",
    "                     \"counts\": {\"questionCount\": len(root.xpath(\".//akn:question\", namespaces=AKN))}\n",
    "                    },\n",
    "            \"results\": []\n",
    "             }}\n",
    "# if by and to are used, they are dict: {\"uri\": AnyURI, \"showAs\": string}\n",
    "for q in root.xpath(\".//akn:question\", namespaces=AKN):\n",
    "    question = {\"by\": {\"showAs\": \"\", \n",
    "                                  \"uri\": \"\"},\n",
    "                \"to\": {\"showAs\": \"\", \n",
    "                                  \"uri\": \"\"},\n",
    "                \"debateSection\": {\"showAs\": \"\", \n",
    "                                  \"uri\": \"\"},\n",
    "                \"uri\": \"\",\n",
    "                \"context\": None,\n",
    "                \"questionNumber\": \"\",\n",
    "               \"showAs\": \"\"}\n",
    "    by_tlc = root.xpath(\".//akn:TLCPerson[@eId='{}']\".format(q.attrib['by'][1:]), namespaces=AKN)[0].attrib\n",
    "    to_tlc = root.xpath(\".//akn:TLCRole[@eId='{}']\".format(q.attrib['to'][1:]), namespaces=AKN)[0].attrib\n",
    "    question['uri'] = dbr_uri + \"/\" + q.attrib['eId']\n",
    "    question['questionNumber'] = int(q.attrib['eId'].split(\"_\")[-1])\n",
    "    question['by']['uri'] = by_tlc['href']\n",
    "    question['by']['showAs'] = by_tlc['showAs']\n",
    "    question['to']['uri'] = to_tlc['href']\n",
    "    question['to']['showAs'] = to_tlc['showAs']\n",
    "    dbs = q.xpath(\"./parent::akn:debateSection\", namespaces=AKN)[0]\n",
    "    question['debateSection']['uri'] = dbr_uri + \"/\" + dbs.attrib['eId']\n",
    "    question['debateSection']['showAs'] = dbs.xpath(\"./akn:heading/text()\", namespaces=AKN)[0]\n",
    "    question['showAs'] = \" \".join(q.xpath(\"./akn:p//text()\", namespaces=AKN)).replace(\"  \", \" \")\n",
    "    question = {\"question\": question}\n",
    "    questions['questions']['results'].append(question)"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 15,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": true
   },
   "outputs": [],
   "source": [
    "with open(\"../data/question-list.json\", \"w\") as f:\n",
    "    json.dump(questions, f, sort_keys=True, indent=2)\n",
    "    \n",
    "\n",
    "with open(\"../data/question-list.xml\", \"wb\") as f:\n",
    "    f.write(xmltodict.unparse(questions, pretty=True).encode(\"utf-8\"))"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "markdown",
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": true
   },
   "source": [
    "### Votes"
   ]
  },
  {
   "cell_type": "code",
   "execution_count": 32,
   "metadata": {
    "collapsed": false
   },
   "outputs": [
    {
     "data": {
      "text/plain": [
       "{'questions': {'head': {'by': {'showAs': None, 'uri': None},\n",
       "   'chamber': {'showAs': 'DÁIL ÉIREANN', 'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/house/dail'},\n",
       "   'counts': {'questionCount': 10},\n",
       "   'dateRange': {'end': '2015-11-12', 'start': '2015-11-12'},\n",
       "   'limit': 1,\n",
       "   'query': None,\n",
       "   'skipped': 0,\n",
       "   'sort': 'desc',\n",
       "   'to': {'showAs': None, 'uri': None}},\n",
       "  'results': [{'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Mr. Seán Ó Fearghaíl',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Seán-Ó-Fearghaíl.S.2000-06-09/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '1 Deputy Seán Ó Fearghaíl asked the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht the funding being provided for the Heritage Council in 2016; and if she will make a statement on the matter. [39716/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Heritage Council Funding',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_4'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 1,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_1'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Mr. Pearse Doherty',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Pearse-Doherty.S.2007-07-23/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '2 Deputy Pearse Doherty den an Aire Ealaíon, Oidhreachta agus Gaeltachta an dtabharfaidh sí soiléiriú maidir leis na céimeanna atá á nglacadh ag an Roinn chun próiseas nua tairisceana a chur ar bun maidir leis an aersheirbhís go hÁrainn; cén rannpháirtíocht a bheidh ag pobal an oileáin sa phróiseas; agus an bhfuil sí ábalta a dheimhniú gur seirbhís eitleáin sciatháin dhobhogtha amach as Aerfort Réigiúnach Chonamara a bheidh á lorg. [39632/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Seirbhísí Eitilte',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_5'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 2,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_2'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': \"Ms. Maureen O'Sullivan\",\n",
       "      'uri': \"/ie/oireachtas/member/Maureen-O'Sullivan.D.2009-06-05/dail/31\"},\n",
       "     'context': '3 Deputy Maureen O’Sullivan asked the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht if she will exercise the power conferred on her under the national monument certification process to undertake the preservation of 10 Moore Street in Dublin 1, identified by the National Museum as the point of entry into the terrace by the Irish garrison from the General Post Office, the location of the first council of war after the evacuation of the General Post Office, and where five signatories spent their last night before their surrender and execution, and those other buildings on the terrace identified in both the Frank Myles and Shaffrey reports. [39630/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'National Monuments',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_6'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 3,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_3'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Mr. Michael P. Kitt',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Michael-P-Kitt.D.1975-03-04/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '4 Deputy Michael P. Kitt den an Aire Ealaíon, Oidhreachta agus Gaeltachta céard atá beartaithe aici mar gheall ar aersheirbhís go dtí Oileáin Árann; an bhfuil sí sásta conradh nua aersheirbhíse a thosú; agus an ndéanfaidh sí ráiteas ina thaobh. [39717/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Seirbhísí Eitilte',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_7'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 4,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_4'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': \"Ms. Maureen O'Sullivan\",\n",
       "      'uri': \"/ie/oireachtas/member/Maureen-O'Sullivan.D.2009-06-05/dail/31\"},\n",
       "     'context': '5 Deputy Maureen O’Sullivan asked the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht the person who costed and valued the sale of the NAMA-owned properties on the Moore Street battle site in Dublin 1; if there was a survey with a report available; if there will be a tendering process for contractors involved in the restoration; and when a timeframe will be drawn up for the works. [39631/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'National Monuments',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_8'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 5,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_5'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Ms. Michelle Mulherin',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Michelle-Mulherin.D.2011-03-09/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '6 Deputy Michelle Mulherin asked the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht the status of the consultation process for Culture 2025; and if she will make a statement on the matter. [39548/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Cultural Policy',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_10'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 6,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_6'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Ms. Catherine Byrne',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Catherine-Byrne.D.2007-06-14/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '7 Deputy Catherine Byrne asked the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht the status of the commemorative projects at Richmond Barracks and Kilmainham Gaol in Dublin 8, which are being carried out as part of the Ireland 2016 centenary programme; and if she will make a statement on the matter. [39496/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Commemorative Events',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_11'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 7,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_7'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Mr. Pearse Doherty',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Pearse-Doherty.S.2007-07-23/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '8 Deputy Pearse Doherty den an Aire Ealaíon, Oidhreachta agus Gaeltachta an dtabharfaidh sí soiléiriú maidir leis an maoiniú a chuirfear ar fáil leis an obair riachtanach fheabhsúcháin a dhéanamh ar ché Inis Oírr; cén buiséad as a dtiocfaidh sé; cén uair a chuirfear ar fáil é; agus cathain, meastar, a bheidh an obair críochnaithe. [39530/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Céanna agus Cuanta',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_12'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 8,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_8'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Mr. Seán Kyne',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Seán-Kyne.D.2011-03-09/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '9 Deputy Seán Kyne den an Aire Ealaíon, Oidhreachta agus Gaeltachta an dul chun cinn atá déanta maidir le cruthú pleananna teanga le haghaidh ceantair Ghaeltachta; agus líon na pleananna atá forbartha agus curtha i ngníomh. [39555/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Pleananna Teanga',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_13'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 9,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_9'}},\n",
       "   {'question': {'by': {'showAs': 'Mr. Seán Ó Fearghaíl',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Seán-Ó-Fearghaíl.S.2000-06-09/dail/31'},\n",
       "     'context': '11 Deputy Seán Ó Fearghaíl asked the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht her response to the proposed deer cull in Killarney National Park in County Kerry; and if she will make a statement on the matter. [39503/15]',\n",
       "     'debateSection': {'showAs': 'Deer Culls',\n",
       "      'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/dbsect_14'},\n",
       "     'questionNumber': 11,\n",
       "     'to': {'showAs': 'Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht',\n",
       "      'uri': '/ie/oireachtas/member/Heather-Humphreys.D.2011-03-09/dail/31/minister/arts__heritage__gaeltacht'},\n",
       "     'uri': '/akn/ie/debateRecord/dail/2015-11-12/debate/pq_11'}}]}}"
      ]
     },
     "execution_count": 32,
     "metadata": {},
     "output_type": "execute_result"
    }
   ],
   "source": [
    "questions"
   ]
  }
 ],
 "metadata": {
  "kernelspec": {
   "display_name": "Python 3",
   "language": "python",
   "name": "python3"
  },
  "language_info": {
   "codemirror_mode": {
    "name": "ipython",
    "version": 3
   },
   "file_extension": ".py",
   "mimetype": "text/x-python",
   "name": "python",
   "nbconvert_exporter": "python",
   "pygments_lexer": "ipython3",
   "version": "3.5.1"
  }
 },
 "nbformat": 4,
 "nbformat_minor": 0
}
